[Music]
What episode is this?
Episode 39.
I'm glad you're keeping track of this, Greg, because I never know what the number is.
I honestly don't know why I remembered.
But yeah, I know it's episode 39.
Alright.
If I'm wrong, oh well.
It doesn't matter.
There's no consequence.
Now episode 39.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So be it that's right.
One of those episodes.
It's a number.
What is numbers anyway?
Math is made up.
It's not real.
That's right.
It's like birds.
Do you ever hear the origin of the birds aren't real thing?
No.
It's really dumb.
It's just someone came up with a sign and went to a protest and stuck it up and then
it caught on.
It just came on me.
Yeah.
Viral.
For some reason when I heard it was an NPR thing, I thought it was going to be more involved.
It was just, and they were interviewing the guy.
He's like, "Yeah, I'll just goof around."
It doesn't take much.
No, no.
Actually the best memes are the ones that are unintentional.
They just kind of happen naturally.
Yeah.
Talking about memes.
Memes.
A bunch of old guys sitting around talking about memes.
This is the episode where we just talk about memes and how great the sound design and sound
track is for Andor.
Holy shit.
Is it good?
I haven't seen it.
It's fucking amazing.
Yeah.
I mean the show itself is also, I put it out there.
I think it's the best thing since the original trilogy.
It's, as of this recording, it's not done yet.
So who knows if they're going to stick the landing?
Like they could still fuck it up between now and the end.
But so far, every moment's been captivating.
The stories have been great.
And yeah, the sound astounding.
Yeah.
It's live action?
Not animated?
Live action?
Yeah.
I think we're up to, well today episode 11 releases tonight at some point, but yeah, we're
up to episode 10.
Sound design pretty excellent.
And soundtrack to a lot of classical sci-fi vibes.
Yeah.
Oh cool.
But not cliche.
It has that vibe, but without just being a vangelous ripoff or forbidden planet, it
has its own very distinctive take on it.
It's always weird to see something Star Wars related without John Williams blasting horns
in your face.
Absolutely.
But it works.
And this has been kind of under the radar.
Maybe people are starting to talk about it now.
But when it started, I just was like, oh shit, Disney Plus is telling me something's on.
I'm guilty of that too.
I ignored it up until I think the sixth episode.
And then finally I was like, yeah, let's see what this is all about.
And then I binged the first six and I was immediately hooked.
Which is weird because that's all Mandalorian was all you heard about for a while.
Right.
That was because of Baby Yoda.
I think nobody would have, well, not nearly as many people would have given a shit if
it wasn't for Baby Yoda memes.
Yeah.
But like Obi-Wan was basically unwontable.
And there was a lot of hype around that.
I remember even being kind of excited for it.
It was trash.
It was really bad.
I mean, even just like the idea of like, I'm going to sit around and just watch Sexy, Sexy,
You and McGregor, which should be enough.
That's been enough in the past.
I was, it was so boring that even him in that weird Obi-Wan voice, affected voicing that
he does was not enough to carry it.
Yeah.
But Obi-Wan, a better show.
Oh, I see what you did.
I'll see you guys tomorrow.
Yeah, I'm sorry, everyone.
And that wraps up episode 39.
Nick has the high ground.
So who wants to kick it off?
Elephant in the room.
What is all that fucking shit over there?
All right.
So last time, I didn't get the memo that we were doing show and tell.
And so do you ever have like a nightmare of the last day of a class and it's the final
and you haven't gone to any classes and you're the only one who hasn't prepared?
That was my last episode.
And you're naked.
I'm naked.
And I walk into Craig's house last time, naked, and you both have things for show and tell.
And I've got like mediocre pumpkin beer.
I'm just like, what?
This is a nightmare.
This is a nightmare come true.
And so I vowed I'm not going to let that happen again.
And maybe I went a little overboard.
This is a lot of stuff.
I don't agree.
I think so.
Yeah.
I'm making up for some for a lost opportunity there.
So what we got here is a black hole case with a lot of chaos devices.
Specifically the Leibniz.
Leibniz.
I think that's right.
Binary subsystem.
I was sort of alluded to it in the past episodes that I've been getting fired up for it.
But I'm basically all in on the system.
I think it's amazing.
So much so that over here I've built my own module to tie into that subsystem.
So buckle in.
Basically, my idea was I was going to give you kind of an overview of the system itself.
I don't think a lot of people are using it.
I think it's a little bit of a under the radar.
Like, you know, the niche of the niche of the niche.
Yeah.
Sort of section.
So I was going to start with that and then explain what I've added to it.
So first off, Dresno.
Arguably the main driver for the subsystem.
It starts with an ADC converting signal or if you've got nothing plugged in or no initial
state, just an offset on the Dresno.
Turns that into eight gates.
Those gates represent most truly significant bits in a 8-bit binary system.
You know, 0 to 256 unsigned.
And there's a little readout here that shows you.
You're going from top to bottom, most significant, the 8-bit all the way down to the least significant
the first bit.
It has an internal clock.
And with each of those clocks, you get an updated representation that gets spit out into
each of these gates.
And it takes a clock in so you can even slow that down.
But without an external clock, it's a brisk 2 MHz.
So it's, you know, it's ultrasonic based on what you put into it.
Either through this input jack or in the back, there is a 10 pin ribbon cable that shares
data around through the subsystem.
That gets sent to the ADC, which then generates these gates.
And you can override what's going in through the ribbon cable with this input jack here.
Then there is the, and the output is these gates.
There's also a DAC, digital analog converter.
And if you notice here, there's also a sort of mirror of inputs.
You can override any bit by sending voltage into these.
And they correspond to, you know, this is the most significant at the top, least significant
at the bottom.
These are overrides for what the ADC itself would generate.
At this point, are there any questions?
I've tried to read up on this, these modules.
It confused me then, but I'm confused now.
So that's what I'm trying to do.
I'm hoping to alleviate.
No, I think it's one of those things that I would just have to see you play with in real
time or an audio demo.
It's interesting because the audio effect of this is, at least from my perspective, the
least interesting part of the system.
Is it basically just does analog to digital and then digital to...
What does it mean as an effect, just demonstrating what it does?
Well, I will show you right now.
So, okay, wait a minute, I'm going to explain.
To the listener, right now I've got a clock coming in from the Evaton clocks.
It works best with a square wave and that module is just square wave.
So it works great for this.
And right now it's just taking in, you can see it's sort of wiggling around a little
bit there because it's just input signal from the Mosca sequencers, which isn't very
interesting.
But what I'm going to do is getting that signal from where?
Like behind the panel.
And see you actually plugged in.
It's behind the panel.
And that's what's inside.
It's inside behind the scenes.
Yes, and that's...
See this cable sticking out over here?
I see that.
That's the 10 pin cable that all of the subsystems that participate in leemits from...
See each, they all have an input and an output connector for this.
Okay.
So you chain them along and they basically send that data, that binary data to the next module.
And about half of them so far have this link button.
And what the link does, it says I'm going to take the data that's coming in as it's
been processed.
This is, I'm going to do my own thing.
If you unlink it, you're going to do your own thing.
You have to pick how you want to chain them because it can have an effect on the downstream
modules.
So wait, by linking you mean they're all sharing the same stream of data?
It's linking with the incoming signal.
Oh, okay.
And then what comes next, it has an output and it passes along to the next module.
So it's literally serial?
Yes, exactly.
Thank you.
That's a much more concise way of putting it.
It is literally serial.
Now it can be like a token ring network where it circles back in and on itself.
And a couple of modules only have an input or an output.
All the rest of them have inputs and outputs.
So you can have them in a circle.
And this is a slight diversion.
Someone out there, and I just saw this on YouTube a little while ago, created a patch
bay of these 10 pin connectors, the surface of them all so that you can in like, oh, that's
cool.
Yeah, like you can just do it on your modular.
Yeah.
Whoever that is, Bravo.
That's a brilliant idea.
So yeah, I'm going to, what I'm doing now is I'm patching from a Dixie an LFO into here.
And hopefully this illustrates a little bit better.
One of the things that I think is really interesting about this system.
Just a simple, this is a very simple example.
It's just a sine wave going into there with a reduced clock.
And as you can see, the ADC is taking that sine wave, turning it in.
These are just gates that are going to be coming out of here.
There's also this offset because it's designed to be unipolar.
But anything above halfway allows you to get the bipolar and process of bipolar signal
and get the full range of it.
Otherwise you're only going to get the lower base.
And each of these lights here, there's a gate coming out corresponding for each of
these.
Yeah.
So it's taking that LFO and deriving a gate based on its interpretation of that LFO.
Exactly.
I'll put it into those jacks.
And it can be any signal.
Like LFO, I just did this for this presentation, but you can send it from any signal coming
in.
It's going to have this and then it gets turned into these series of gates.
I'm at patching in here.
I'm overriding one of the bits with another output from the clocks.
And what had previously been the most significant bit was not being hit, is now being supplemented
by this external signal.
Is that external signaling an offset or is it just filling in the range that didn't exist
in the other signal?
It's overriding whatever the ADC, whatever turn that gate had been determined, it's saying
ignore the ADC, this overrides that value.
And it's cool for stuff like this, because this is, again, this is principally how I've
been using it or how I've been thinking about using it is as a gate sequencer coming up
with a different way to use it.
And putting a bunch of these in, if you have an audio signal coming in, just really wrecks
that bit crushing effect in a really interesting sort of tearing way.
Oh, yeah, I was going to say it because at first I was like, oh, that would almost be
useless or there's some specific effect that it has on the audio, because it would be so
fast that it would be like, you know, what gates are you?
Exactly.
This is the fine large, what the Dresno performs.
The one that I usually have following it is the Gina, the J-E-N-A, which I, and it takes
and it also connects by this 10 pin ribbon cable.
And it is a wavetable lookup.
So it takes that value and transposes it into an offset and a lookup on a lookup table,
gets that and then replaces with that waveform.
Oh, interesting.
So you're kind of scanning through this wavetable.
Exactly.
Yes.
Okay, that can, I didn't understand what that did until you said that.
Okay.
That one is really interesting with audio.
And then the other one I have is the IRFORT, which shigs all of this data and uses it as
a binary bit accumulator.
Oh, okay.
Again, I'll take a break.
Is there any other questions?
Yeah.
I think I get it a little more now than I did before.
The documentation is good, but I had to read it like a dozen times.
And then play with it and then go back and read the documentation again.
It was a, it did take me a little while to grok.
And then, so I had a little bit of time on my hands.
I was like, oh, it would be really cool if there was this, an idea for something that
would be cool to add to the system.
So, and I was like, well, obviously the data that's being sent around in this cable, why
don't I just read what's coming out of that cable and reverse engineer it and make my
own module, which I did.
So for our listeners, there is a 10 pin cable coming out of this black hole case into a
weird ass little box with a breadboard and what looks like an Arduino and a shit ton
of cables.
That is exactly what it is.
Yeah.
I guess we could post pictures on our Instagram.
Discord.
It'd be a good day right there.
I also, I don't know how excited chaos devices is about me doing this.
This is not open source.
And I had to basically sit there within a oscilloscope and a meter and figure out what
each pin does and experiment and the plan.
I hacked the plan.
I did.
And yeah, so I made an Arduino code here that's taking in the signal.
And as you can see, the first step was just making sure that I was replicating it, the
data correctly.
And then I've added three outputs and it is the four most significant bits.
If more of them are on this sends out a gate, if more of them are off, it's low.
But because there's four, there's a chance for ties.
So I have a little toggle here for tiebreaker.
Either it's going to take whatever the state of the eighth most significant bit is or there's
an input Jack here that I have, I'm going to read an external signal in and use that
for that tiebreaker.
That's cool.
And so I've got that same logic for the least four significant bits.
And then this top Jack here is for all eight of the bits.
Is it getting power from that 10 pin cable to are you powering it another way?
So it's powered.
The Arduino is powered by USB.
This is, there's a, again, I don't know how cool chaos is going to be about me sort of
spilling this, but one of the pins is ground.
One of them is a clock signal, whatever, either the internal clock or whatever the external
clock is that's coming over one of the wires.
And then the other eight wires represent one through eight bits.
It seemed like the design is, you know, when you get a clock signal, you read the state
of all of those bits and then you replicate the state from there.
Makes sense.
So that's what the two megahertz clock is.
That's doing all the work in between those.
Well, during those cycles, right?
If you have no external clock plugged in, if you plug in an external clock, it's still
weird.
Yeah.
So like so weird.
So you're slowing down the computation with the external six.
Exactly.
You can see the external signal is still coming in, but the speed of the conversion is tied
to the clock.
And so that's also why you're getting a somewhat irregular pattern is because the phase of the
incoming sine wave is faster than the clock.
So you have the signal affecting in itself and the clock affecting the interpretation
of the signal.
That's exactly pretty wild.
Yep.
Okay.
And it's also reflected over here in the module that I made.
You can see these lights match up with that because the on the 10 pin ribbon, that clock
is shared, that that's the clock that's getting passed through the binary subsystem from Dresno.
Okay.
I guess this is like a lot of explanation and not a lot of context.
One of the really interesting things and one of the things I really like about it is I'm
getting this seemingly chaotic gate pattern happening.
But because it's coming from a regular signal, it's repeating fairly regularly.
It's depending on the signal that you send it, it might take eight bars or a pretty long
time for that fit.
I don't know if I can modify the thing that I made.
Why not do it?
I mean, honestly, I don't know what the licensing for it is.
You know, it's not entirely stochastic.
Right.
So yeah.
Yeah.
I'm a huge fan and I hope they make more modules.
I don't know if I can module if I, the thing that I made.
Why not do it?
Like, if I, if I did, I probably would not go with Arduino was just, you know, this was
the fastest way to do this.
I would probably come up with something, a different hardware demography in order to
do this.
So it would be a lot more work to get there.
But and again, like I said at the beginning, this is niche of a niche of a niche of a niche.
If I do this, there might be five people on earth.
I want to buy it.
That'd be cool to do a limited run though.
Yeah.
Like I said before, like that was my first intelligible module was when he did the, I
believe it was the live wire of Vulcan.
Yeah.
It was the Vulcan, right?
And like there wasn't a whole lot of people out there at the time that had like the Vulcan
modulator, you know what I mean?
Or willing to spend a lot of money on something that was like as much as the actual module
just to expand upon it.
But like, yeah, I love that thing.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
And it felt cool having something that was like, I don't know, like an underground
release to expand upon something.
You know what I mean?
I was like, this is a niche.
In this functionality, this ADC and DAC conversion is not that prevalent in your Iraq, but even
in the synth world in general, I was talking to a friend of the podcast, Ryan, he might
make music.
I've never asked.
But he reminded him of the G2 modular has an ADC conversion and a DA converter that
I just got on, yeah, that reminded him of this and I ended up looking it up.
He sent me the documentation where I was like, yeah, it's very comparable to this.
Yeah, there's not much they could pitch about.
You're just reading pins from a signal from pins on a module.
Yeah.
It's not like there's anything.
It's not like you're trying to market it as a chaos device as a module.
Right.
Or they could have put some signature on the start or something that you would have had
to figure out.
But it's obvious that I love them and I don't want them to be mad at me.
Right.
This is a work of passion.
Exactly.
I think they would be super psyched about this.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, like I said, it was also a project I took on.
I wanted to see if I could do it.
But this was super fun.
There were definitely times where I'm like, I'm not getting this at all.
I'm like, totally on the wrong track and almost gave up and then, or in the morning.
Persevered.
Well, mostly I just woke up in a fever sweat and go, wait, maybe it's this and then ran
downstairs and got the scope and shit out.
I assume my partner thinks I've gone even crazier than usual.
So what do you want to do with the next?
What's the next step?
So I mean, like even idea why it's not even necessarily with that.
That's a good question.
Because like this module probably is as extended as it can get.
There's starting to think in different ways about like, you've got all of this data coming
in in this weird way.
What can you do with it?
And like, I think some of the low hanging fruit has been done by chaos devices.
And even if I don't turn this into a module, I like the idea of having maybe even like
a board off the side or like a project box off the side where I just have all the crazy
things that I'm doing with it.
And I'm just, you know, just and I can keep adding to it.
Yeah, just being able to manipulate this dream at that low level.
That's pretty interesting in itself.
Exactly.
I wonder if you could do like just like live coding against it somehow, you know, or something
like that.
Like cool, you're like manipulating this dream at a time somehow.
That's a really interesting idea.
Like it would be difficult with Arduino because you have to upload.
Oh, true, true, true stuff.
But that wouldn't prohibit you from connecting a keyboard to it and then having these sort
of like free variables or like basically accessing memory as it's coming in.
The issue of other pins you could do things with the program.
Exactly.
Right.
So I mean, it's circling around.
And so instead of updating the core program, the program itself is designed to incorporate
these new inputs and behave on them accordingly.
That's a fucking brilliant idea.
I'm putting it here right now.
Probably going to steal that.
Yeah, please do.
That's an awesome idea.
That's crazy.
How long did you've been cracking up with remots or something?
It's been about June, it's November.
So yeah, let's yeah.
I mean, it took over a month, well over a month, just to reverse engineer these pins and figure
out how they work.
And then also, you know, I've got a pretty good understanding of electronics, but I didn't
go to school for it.
So a lot of it was, you know, I think I need to put a resistor here.
Oh, no, that didn't work.
Yeah.
Somebody who was much better at that sort of low level, like electronics design would
probably laugh and go.
I could I could have hammered that on a couple of hours.
It took me a long time to get to the point where I have the lights blinking, the even
the jacks.
Yes, something else I want to mention too.
I had never hooked up or read or sent data to a jack before and I end up using the mutable
instruments schematics.
They work perfectly.
Oh shit.
Yeah.
Jack schematics and it worked like a charm and it even diode protected from being plugged
in the wrong way.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
See if the day.
Yeah, exactly.
To the rescue once more.
Absolutely.
I hate to say Emily, but I think Amelie would be with an A. Yeah, like the movie.
Pretty sick, dude.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Cool stuff.
Very fun.
I love that case.
Yeah, the case is rad.
Yeah.
So I ran out of project boxes.
I like both of those cases.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
This is a well, this one is because I've got a problem every time I go to like Goodwill
or thrift store and there's just some old box.
Like, oh shit, it's like a dollar.
I'm like, I want to put something in that.
This was like a clarinet case.
I ripped everything out.
This is black hole cases.
I think they're from Ohio.
I just sort of happened upon them like a couple of years ago looking for a case and
all of their stuff is this like textured.
Yeah, I remember you speaking highly of an angry, previous episode.
I don't think I've ever seen the actual case that you're talking about.
Oh, I probably never brought it around.
It's pretty cool.
It came with those little stands that it's on.
Oh, it came with these feet.
No, the stands were a random perfect circuit like sale.
They were like five bucks.
Damn.
And they like perfectly.
They say they were pretty well.
So I'm probably going to, if I ever need to get another case, I'm going to go to this
because it just looks like old scientific equipment.
I love it.
It does.
At first, I thought it was something you constructed.
I was like, no, if they were to build that, it would look much more haggard.
I should be insulted, but I'm not.
You are a hundred percent correct.
You wouldn't use this pristine tolex.
Nah.
Those angles wouldn't be so right.
You would have peeled the leather from like an 80 year old couch.
It would look older and it would have cat scratches in it and some mold patches in it.
That is true.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
That rhymes.
Cat scratches and mold patches.
Shit.
Damn.
That was a title.
That's the new episode.
Yeah.
What does that have to do with?
No, very little.
It's just, it's great.
Don't worry about it.
Listen and find out.
Exactly.
And subscribe to our Patreon.
Yeah.
If you tell us how email you a pencil, we have stickers and rolling papers that I won't
send you.
Well, now that we've dipped into the underbelly of modular, you want to talk about something
that's very mainstream, maybe influencer level?
Ooh.
I don't know who you might be talking about.
I'm talking about endorphins collaboration with Andrew.
Oh, fuck.
Wong.
I always want to say, "Wang."
Because it's an H, but I'm just stupid.
Andrew Huang for ghost.
We joked about it in the past.
We also made the joke that eventually one of us would end up with one.
Yeah.
Guess who did?
It was me.
Shocked.
You know what though?
It's funny.
I was generally shocked.
I was too.
Like when you said you got one, I was like, "Holy shit, you did it."
I tried to take a step back.
And I was like, "I'm going to look at this.
I'm going to ignore the influencer name that's all over it.
I'm going to ignore the fact that he is indeed an influencer and not a dark techno producer
who's trying to collaborate for a dark techno module.
I'm just going to ignore all this.
I'm going to ignore the fact that endorphins has a track record of releasing buggy, noisy
modules.
And I'm going to have an open mind and give it a fair shot.
It definitely sounds like you had an open mind.
I did.
I went into it with a clean slate, you know?
Low expectations.
And I was still disappointed.
But I do have endorphins and Andrew to thank showing me what an overpriced shitty distortion
module sounds like and pushing me in the direction to find a better alternative.
Ooh.
But yeah, I'll get to the alternatives in a moment.
I'm very excited to hear those, but I'm also very excited to hear your experience.
How long did you have it?
I had Ghost for a week.
Okay, that's a pretty long trial.
But you didn't have a shot.
We've both ditched stuff in a day.
Yeah.
I gave it a fair shake, dude.
I did.
Like the first night, I wasn't that impressed with it.
Second night, like the thing I received it on like a Friday or something, I messed with
it and I was like, hmm, you know, it's like, I'll dig deeper into this.
Maybe I'm missing something.
Spent the weekend with it, did a few patches.
I think you even posted an Instagram video and it was like semi satisfactory, but I realized
like it was mostly because of the other modules that I had it involved with.
You know what I mean?
Right.
So I tried to pick it apart, just piece by piece, learn each circuit because I was struggling
to figure out how all of these effects that it has work well with each other because
they just weren't.
For our listeners' sake, like this module is like an all in one solution for dark techno.
Supposedly.
It has a saturation circuit and a DJ style filter circuit, a compressor circuit, a reverb circuit
and a delay circuit.
They're all supposed to work hand in hand to quickly and easily like dial in like a
rumble kick or something to that extent.
And you can change the routing of these effects.
You don't need to manually patch one to the other.
There's like three separate modes that you can bounce through changes the internal working
of these circuits.
On their own, each circuit was bad.
Yeah.
This is a module that does like a lot of things and it does all of them poorly.
Now is the idea supposed to be that you're not intended to use them individually that
they are supposed to be the...
That's what I'm sure the figure out.
I was like, okay, maybe on their own, they suck.
The magic is probably with them all working hand in hand.
A network of things to form a cohesive sound.
Greater than the sum of their parts.
Like a human centipede.
Yeah.
And I failed to get anything that I enjoyed out of it in that regard as well.
I jotted some notes down about each.
So real quick, are you sending drum series, something bass line you're saying?
No, I'm always...
Okay.
Mainly.
I mean, I don't really do melodies.
Right.
From my understanding of the module, this was meant to be something that you would process
like your techno kicks with.
Right.
You know, I mean, things like that.
They kind of sell it that way.
Yeah.
Right.
Anyone who knows anything about like producing that type of shit would look at the components
of this module and say, oh yeah, that's all the shit that I'd typically do in my DAW
or that's all the shit that I wire up in my module to get this sound.
So it was all right there.
Like these were carefully selected effects.
These weren't like flanger, phaser, you know what I mean?
It wasn't meant to be a multi-factor.
Like this, as far as I could tell, had a pretty specific purpose.
And so I try to use it in that purpose, you know, for that purpose rather.
And it just wasn't hitting it.
Like the individual components just didn't seem to like jive with each other.
Like, oh, which is weird because then I see that module.
It reminds me of like the triptych, oh, little one.
I'm like, oh, this is like them trying to make like this thing.
The module that I do have works together.
Yeah.
And I've had it in a while.
And was a collaboration.
Yeah.
Mind you, totally.
By people that like actually work with that style music.
Yeah.
Basic boys noise.
I actually had that jotted down here in my notes because I made that comparison mentally
as well.
Like this reminds me of the SSF triptych.
Right.
A collaboration with B2 Electronics.
Which most people don't even like think that because it's not all that.
It's not the main point of the module.
Like this was the fact that this was a collaboration was kind of pushed to the forefront before
anything else.
Whereas like the triptych was not.
It's like it was an afterthought.
Like, oh, by the way, this module exists because we collaborated with these producers
who gave their feedback.
Right.
And also I think it's Andrew from SSF generally makes like really solid circuits.
Like I love the SSF shit I've used.
Same.
Yeah.
I'm so I did try to keep an open mind.
Right.
Right off the bat, I'll say I did not have noise issues.
A few people that saw reported that on, you know, Mod Wiggler that they were having noise
issues.
I didn't notice any noise.
So in that regard, no complaints.
But yeah, it just wasn't impressed with the module overall either.
Biggest complaint, because that's the first and foremost part of this module was the distortion
and the saturation circuit.
It did it just like completely lacked character, in my opinion.
Like the more you turned it up, the muddier and mushier like the sound got.
It just instead of like enhancing the harmonics, it just kind of like suppressed them.
Like this was not a good distortion circuit.
I could think of many other preamps that would have been probably a better choice than whatever
they, however they had this going.
Like it just did nothing for me.
So I was kind of just bypassing it.
I was using the multitude of other modules I have as a preamp first to go into this thing.
Did you have shaping options for the distortion?
Like what are the op like what are the parameters you had for it?
On the input you do have some shaping, which I thought was a nice touch.
There was like a tone control for like high pass low pass.
It was kind of like a pre filter before everything else, which is nice.
That I would like to see on more modules for sure.
But yeah, the saturation circuit itself I found just kind of lacking.
I found better character out of the volume knob, if you cranked it past like I guess
around like five o'clock or so, it would start to add like some fuzz to the top end.
And that was kind of nice to get that going and then run into the filter first.
Like it just gave you a little bit of crunch.
It was like the saturation circuit just lacked anything like that.
So what was the, you were saying the saturation just made a lot louder and smooshy.
Yeah, it's not very good.
Is it analog?
I don't know.
I know the trick is mostly an all analog signal path.
I think I highly doubt this is because everything about it just kind of screamed like the reverb
to the reverb was the absolute like words.
It is.
Yeah, I don't know.
Like the before I got me further, let me point out that I did only have this for a week.
And within that week, they released, I think it was six different firmware revisions.
Whoa, whoa.
We like bug fixes bug fixes and changing the characteristic of the filter of the delight,
like a lot of things changing with it.
So I didn't install any of these.
I didn't want to be bothered.
I was playing with this thing out of the box fresh from release.
I got it within 48 hours of it being officially released from Detroit modular.
So it was like, you know, fresh off the truck.
One to see what it had to offer.
I did not want to be messing around with firmware updates at that point.
Yeah.
As someone who does QA, it's done QA quite a bit in their career.
This is screaming.
There was no QA.
Yeah.
No one has this six releases, especially like right after the release, like it was like,
Oh shit, we fucked this up.
Yeah.
I don't know if it was a fuck up or if like other people just had some of the similar
complaints that I did and brought it to their attention.
I know that in some of the patch notes, if you open it up in the firmware folder, it
says like this was suggested by Andrew.
Like after the fact, like the last one, I think it was on November 3rd.
But why didn't they have those conversations before?
Before he released.
That was what I was wondering as well.
He's a busy influencer.
But the reverb, yeah, like you only have two like main functions with it.
You can adjust the pre delay, which I do enjoy.
I love shucking with pre delay on reverb when it comes to progressive processing.
That was a nice touch.
That aside from the decay is like the only options you have with this reverb.
Wow.
So limited, you got to make sure it's like a pretty decent reverb, right?
It's like no, like the minute you tend to push it with anything percussive, it just
got sloppy.
Does it have like options for material like like plate or cathedral or room size or anything?
Nope.
It just kind of sounded like clouds reverb with a pre delay option basically.
Yeah, it wasn't very good.
Wasn't very clear.
I noticed in the patch notes in the most recent one on the third, it said added shimmer.
Towards the end of the tale for more lushness.
Again, I think you just like misreading the intent of your own module at that point.
Like why if it's meant to be for percussive slash techno processing, why would you want
shimmer?
Yeah.
You would want instead, like you're saying the ability to go through like hall plate,
you know, spring, things like that.
Very shocked to get any kind of reverb that isn't the most like basic $5 guitar pedal
that didn't have those type of options.
Especially with so much on that module, so much shit surfaced.
I can't believe one of those isn't a toggle for at least three different.
It's because they dedicated so much space for the big stupid DJ filter knob on the top.
Like I gotcha.
It's like 25% of the face plate is for the giant frequency knob for the DJ style filter,
which I found to be very limited in range either.
There was like two sweet spots that I found that I was happy with.
The resonance didn't seem to like add or even take away from the resonance.
It was just kind of like maybe that changed in the firmware.
I don't know.
You have all the things to maybe skip to like dual dagger does a great job of that DJ style
resonant filter like leave that out focus on the other stuff.
Yeah.
It's all stereo too.
It's all stereo and that was the main appeal for me.
But upon messing with it, there's nothing you can really do with the stereo field anyways
and everything coming out of it sounded like mono anyway.
So it's kind of pointless.
Especially if it's meant to be a percussive module.
I don't know.
I see someone may be getting enjoyment out of this thing as an end of chain processor,
maybe.
Right.
The delay was decent.
I was just going to ask you.
I did like the delay.
It had a wide range.
I could go into like car plus territory or up to 2.5 second.
It's cool.
Nice.
It had a tone adjustment so you could just like the brightness and the darkness of it.
Feedback on it.
I don't remember.
Okay.
I want to say yes.
But I did have fun like see being the delay.
It could kind of get glitchy and stuff.
No, that's cool.
It was a neat circuit.
The only one that offered like actual character out of the whole thing.
And then you know at the end of it all you have a compressor which has no options.
It's just one knob.
And for threshold is that all or like what was it?
What did that knob control?
I don't know.
Probably maybe a few things sometimes.
I think it was a multi-function.
I think the more you turned it the more it adjusted like attack decay release rather.
Okay.
I think she is.
But again it just it didn't have much character.
Like I have a couple WMD muscle compressors which are also stereo just three knobs and
you can get a lot of character out of that thing.
A lot of gain.
A lot of interesting results.
Well, I mean that's also a focused module that they would not.
That's the thing if you're going to release a module that is like supposed to be a Swiss
army knife like an all-in-one solution so that you don't go the route of like needing
to get individual modules to do all the same things like then it has to have some character
to it or you know at least be slightly comparable to some of the smallest modules out there
that do similar functionality.
Because it was also very expensive.
It's big and expensive.
It's like a 500 dollar module.
Oh no shit.
Okay.
I want to say like 450 something.
Yeah.
But it's not even like you're like okay someone out there who's starting out they're going
to save a lot of money by getting this instead of building their own.
Right.
Signal chain but you could put all of those modules together.
Smaller versions of the modules that do a better job for about the same price.
That's exactly what I did.
Yeah.
I wanted to give it a shot.
I mean the thought is appealing.
Have a stereo module.
You know the handles all these things.
You're saving space.
You're saving money.
You can reroute it internally without even half in the patch cables.
But at the end of the day it reminded me why I like modular.
Yeah.
You know because like it did not really cut it and I'm like okay this is exactly why
I want modular in the first place to avoid these locked in the box.
Bound together thing.
Type of results.
Yeah that just weren't satisfying to me.
Or if they've done some really interesting deep research and was like this is the common
combination of things and we came up with this network that was really interesting but
it needed to have all of these things in one box.
If there was something truly novel about that in a relationship between the components
then it would work.
It just sounds like they just threw three things in a box and good luck.
Yeah and you know I love my distortion.
Yeah.
I would have been able to like justify keeping it if the distortion was interesting just
alone.
You know what I mean?
Like that is it.
I would have kept it on its own just for a nice stereo distortion but like it just wasn't
there man.
You know I mean it just did not cut it.
Didn't cut it.
Returned it to Detroit modular after a week.
And then used that money to get more interesting modules.
Yeah.
And that is my ghost rant.
I should have trusted my gut instinct and avoided.
I bet it may mean me too.
Someone was gonna have to get it.
We know.
Now I know.
I saw it with my own eyes.
Had to learn the hard way.
Not to knock like Andrew Wong like.
Yeah.
Some of his YouTube videos I find amusing.
Most of them I don't.
But like you know it's like if you're going to collaborate why not stick to something that's
your wheelhouse.
You know what I mean?
Like yeah.
Angry distortion multi effect dark techno module I think you might have stepped too far
out of his own.
I don't associate him.
Confident.
Those works.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So.
And I saw some demos like you know all the influencers were using this thing for the first
week of its race.
I saw a couple like people using it in ambient patches and things like that and I'm like
maybe using it in that regard like in a subtle manner.
It could.
It could work.
But again like if you're.
If you have an ambient modular rig you're probably already knowing what you want and
one of those things is going to be a nice reverb and that is not what you're going to
find on ghost and the fairly you want something with a lot of options a lot of CV a lot of
modulation a lot of choices.
Yeah.
So I don't know who's going to like really enjoy this module plan.
Just see like if it flops or if I'm you know just preaching to the choir to other people
that are very try to found themselves disappointed with it or on the fence about buying it for
the most part I've not seen a lot of videos with it.
I mean there's a lot of influencers.
Yeah.
I haven't really seen people like passionately using this thing or putting videos out there
showing what can be done with it in an interesting way.
Well thank you for stepping into the plate and taking one for the team.
Yes sir.
Because I don't want to buy that thing.
Or get the research.
Save us the money.
Speaking of disappointing things.
Aren't you hopping to the electron corner with me for a little bit.
Oh let's step in.
Yeah we've got some things to talk about today.
We have a little robust electron corner.
Do we ever come up with like a little jingle or something to like introduce this like segment
of maybe I can work on that and the electron only jingle.
Yes yeah.
Oh it's only with an analog four.
Yeah.
Yeah neither do I.
If anyone has an analog four and wants to make us a jingle.
Oh yeah.
We'll send you a goozy and a number two pencil.
Yeah.
Some rolling papers if you want some stickers.
But regardless.
So it was getting ready for a live set and you know doing the first half of that which
is system config usually for me or at least at that point it was.
I was like trying to figure out what to use.
Got the bug up my ass to determine that an electron syntax was in my future.
Yeah.
Yeah and it was you know been out for a little.
I'd heard some samples and I was like shit.
Maybe this is the thing it's got synthesizer in it.
I'd descoped I'd taken the modular out of my set which I was very glad about that worked
out really well actually because I was trying to get that to work and like.
Didn't really get where I wanted.
I was like damn the syntax can do what my rhythm does and it could do sense shit and
I could take it out live and it could be small and yeah.
Got it.
One day back out back to what was it?
Sweet water.
Thank you sweet water for taking another return from me for no price.
Be it for multiple reasons I got it and it's maybe because I've had an electron rhythm
for a long time now mark one and the mark two and all the drum synthesis there was such
a great overlap for the rhythm like all the analog shit I was like well this is identical
to what I already have.
They didn't really push anything at all.
There was one machine and I think it was like a conga machine or something like that.
And it was okay but it had like this little range of sound and first off like I hate the
small size digi boxes.
The 8 by 2 step ones.
I am not a fan.
That is not a pleasurable way to program.
Yeah.
It just doesn't work for me they've like focused on very cute graphics on these new things
too.
Like a like teenage engineering OP one style.
Very much style as far as they can push like the black and white display and some of that
is okay and some of it was just distracting and it was like oh I see where your focus is
when I'm using it like I would rather they push the sound design a little more had more
like machine drum style drum engines the FM things were like the model cycles FM engine
for like chords and like drums and shit like that put on there and it like doesn't sound
good editing the chord stuff is like this weird like it's a very cute graphic but it
is not like something a musician like not that I'm that necessarily but like to figure
out which chord I wanted to play was kind of a nightmare whereas on the half act it's
like let me set it to major or minor and then pick like harmonica or like jazz or blues
or something like that like that's how my brain kind of works.
This was more like scan through a bunch of different chord types and the sound was like
really unsatisfying I did not like the synth engines.
The filter sound kind of similar to the rhythm not as good to me not analog well maybe they
are either way like wasn't too impressed with it.
Also I realized too only the analog four in the electron rhythm have the feature called
direct jump which means you can have a pattern playing switch pattern you can be on step
six of pattern one switch to pattern two and it will start on step seven of pattern two
so you can like really quickly go back and forth like you see any video of Derek basic
uses the hell out of this feature to like do like cut up jungle breaks and things like
that it's just like I need to work that way I'm so used to the rhythm being able to do
that and this couldn't it was always at the end of four bars or at the end of a bar and
it's like that's kind of a bummer for me with a drum machine something where I like I need
to be able to make changes quickly and I think honestly they've just like kind of fucked
up their architecture by like not having that be a feature on all their new shit I don't
see why I honestly assumed that it was I did I did not know that it was yeah and then
I was like oh right they can do this it's simply just a shift and select next pattern
like something you have to make another set of buttons or anything like it's pretty simple
to set up see this gross like armchair programming thing and be like isn't it just a pointer to
like another memory location which is how it works like perfectly on the analog rhythm
like you can it never fucks up it does it just great analog four is the same way too
um so I got this and even the digi machines on it are so fucking bland for the most part
like the kick drums sound like pretty close to the analog ones and there's just nothing
that interesting in any of it um I don't know there was just a lot of for the price and the
sound quality and the synthesizers being like not that fun to use and honestly just like
the dual VCL on the rhythm um it just kind of fucking bored the shit up if it's your first
electron yeah it's probably a good pick I'm spoiled by having used these things for a
long time machine drum octa track rhythm all these things that was gonna be my main question
for you like how does it stack up to the machine drum which is pretty much impossible to not
even use the not even shadow when I first saw it released I thought that was my interpretation
I was like oh this is this is the machine drum mark three you know a mono machine a machine
drum shit in a box I would have been I would still have it I probably would have used it live
because that stuff is unique and like even if you can't use the same code I don't know why they
can't like just try to remake some of those drums right and kind of get like close to that would
probably sound good just to try to get there just by ear or whatever um one cool thing about it is
those modifier tricks so it's like however many tracks I forget how it breaks down but you've got
like four modifier trig tracks on the last four and those let you do things like drum rolls or
like other changes to the pattern and that I thought was like some good innovation on the
sequel so it's to the pattern not the actual synth yeah since of this engine okay so I think
could you map them to like a parameter in the synthesis engine no you can map them to different
parameters within the seek once or engine they're trig modifiers so they're right solely
operating on that okay remember it seems like a little bit of a missed opportunity to
not be able to take that and modulate the synthesis engine itself or parameters in it yeah it's a
good idea and I hope like again we've said this before I want them to get back to making full-size
machines that are very playable they've kind of come up with these small boxes that just aren't
very nice to use and they look like nice and tidy and they're small for taking out to play live but
like you're used to an electron rhythm and you go to that it is a big disappointment in ways at least
for me it was having no like good drum pads no scenes or from parameter pads or anything like
that there's just a lot of stuff missing from it to me and that's the same form factor and buttons
as the digit act right yeah like they're nice to like add to a sequence like I like them on the
rhythm mark two and the octray mark two which I'll talk about but to play like for a pad thing it
just like kind of balls fly for me um it had another LFO that was cool they had some other like incremental
updates but overall so the synth engine itself could you get into like weird like glitchy drums or
weird just sort of like space laser drums like how a little bit like what variety of drum sounds
could you make with that engine not like a strong variety like i'm saying like you can maybe like
it's very analogish um some of the FM stuff you could twist a little bit but the thing about the
synthesis stuff and the chords and anything like that is that it was ended up being so basic like
the FM parameters or it's like their version of it instead of just like a regular like two-op setup
and give me some like classical controls over and they try to like put this cute interface over
top of it um and that just really didn't I didn't vibe with that at all I did not enjoy using it um
yeah it was a very quick disappointment actually it just really wasn't into it at all
that wasn't good sold it um but then eventually got back in bed with an octetrack it had been
I figured out six years since I'd sold the octetrack I used to had one since it came out
um it was a beta tester of for it throughout the entire development of the operating system for
the most part except for the first few releases um got really used to that thing to the point
where I sold it because I was so sick of it and what it did and then this live set I was mixing
with an echlear new o2 DJ mixer which was great and then just kind of weird moment I was using the
rhythm mark too and I was like man love how I can use this thing in the dark and there are LEDs
under the buttons and then I had this moment and I was kind of fucking baked and I was like new
octetrack does that too I opened up this chat with uh Luke and my friend Gabbo and I was like
I don't think I'm gonna do it but I think I'm gonna get an octetrack went back to making my set go
back to the chat both of them had purchased octetrack in this five minute period and they were like
why are you getting yours like it was like holy shit like that's like they were the ones I packed
oh yeah all three of us got these from different places in the same day because it turned out um
the fucking euro to dollar conversion you could get them from toman for like 1250 um
it's a weird beast I was really excited at first I'm like oh it's got balanced inputs now it has
some new buttons and that shit like the new buttons are great like the ui's a little better
same shitty sounding octetrack as before like the quality and like it's kind of a bummer mixing
pieces of gear through it so like the digitack was the first one I think they had that sort of
greatly improved sound engine or the very least the output sounded really good
that was made after that right yeah and it has um it can tolerate higher input levels kind of
but it's still like the way it sums it or something it's just like really kind of fiddly to get
like when you ab it against the mixer it's like all their frequencies just fucking gone right
you know and for like a live set at collision I can roll with it you know like it's that collision
well you know at any place really like it'll work for like how much fidelity you're gonna get in
a club for the most part um and the transition tricks like I use the I've been using the easy
bot template he made this live performance template um for mixing two pieces of gear and that's what
it's kind of I'm using it kind of dumb like just no patterns just one pattern um use a bunch of
different parts with different effects that he has set up and for transitioning it's fucking
magical like it's undeniable like you can loop this thing fade over your loop plays introduce a new
part and cross back over like it opens up a lot of live performance stuff you can overuse it like
any shitty DJ effect if you do it too much and it's like oh you're gonna like do the high pass thing
again with the DJ filter and that's cool um but it does that part is fun and sounds pretty good um
now I have like a four machine set up instead of five it's a little more compact so in that way
it's a success I have it mainly because I realized it's like riding this shitty weird bike once you
get on it and like all the muscle memory was there even when I was like I was automatically
like double tapping track to get the stuff like shift up to get to the mute and the delay control
stuff like it all came back that was weird for not having it for six years but in this like new
version that looks kind of different and I was like this is just it was tripping me out the first
couple of years man I put a lot of time into that thing back in the day he did a tremendous amount
so like it's nice it's cool to like sample the modular you know I'm gonna keep it around just
for that purpose I don't know we'll see how it works in this live set it's made the cut so far
um but it's more fun to mix with the DJ mixer I just thought it kind of sounded better but
yeah electron corners um thumbs up kind of on the octuract one thumb up and one thumb like kind
of sideways two thumbs down on the syntax man they should just make like they'll make some
digi-loop someday or something like that um it's just always so close but so far uh but it's cool
shout out to easybot for the performance thing it works pretty well it's a little overkill for
me but i'm tweaking it as i go um also rehearsal for live set shit today was cool so it'd be funny
i'm excited to throw tomatoes at you i thank you it's just kind of wild that you're back in the
octa track full man now i do um the new buttons are cool the new heart it's beautiful new hardware
the new like black one yeah it's it's pretty slick um good size again it's like 16 steps in like the
old mark one chassis it's like there was something kind of nice about these things they just
felt right to use you know the i hope if they redo it they don't shrink it down into that fucking
box right man i forgot to that like i didn't realize that electron has been bought by at least
one holding company since like 2016 who kind of like i don't know who makes the decisions but
like other people came in and bought like 40 some percent of the company but i think that's why
they're i'm really bad at paying attention to like that anymore anything has to do with business
yeah i don't pay close attention to so do you know who the uh the secret holding company is that
bottle i forget i just read the name the other day the Illuminati holding company and also they
don't uh give me the beta tester to scount anymore so fuck you guys now well you're not beta testing
anymore i have not been a beta tester for many years since the rhythm mark one kind of
stop and i think they just changed their beta program or something but that did get me a
sweet rhythm mark two for a discount i was glad i got that does that thus end electron corner yeah
we haven't had an electron corner in a minute um-hmm hasn't been much electron stuff
it was mostly positive no actually i think it was mostly negative because two thumbs down and
then like thumbs up in the thumbs sideways i think the net is just below a sideways thumb i do like
having the octur track it's cool just to like you know have something there's a lot of value and
just knowing how to use an instrument too and being able to do stuff and it's been fun also i'm
glad you're uh i'm glad you're digging it i'm glad it wasn't like you got it and then was like
like going back and watching a movie that you love from your childhood holy shit this is way
more racist than homophobic than i remember
varesky mastering the a-r-e-s-c-h-i mastering dot
call
i'm done with this project and it sounds bad what do i do how about varesky mastering
that cool philippe will work with you to get you where you want your sound to fucking go
v-a-r-e-s-c-h-i mastering dot com philippe will help you with your sonic issues
*farting*
yeah so um yeah i guess the only thing the only other thing on my list and i don't have it with me
um but i feel like i should talk about it because it's um
not big i think it was a it was a big release a big deal uh cubit
nautilus yeah i took i took the uh pulled the trigger took the dive um i resisted and i was
glad to hear that you pulled the trigger i was like good i will wait and see the results
so um i've been i've been cheering on a lot because i really wanted to come in here with a
more concrete yes no thumbs up thumbs down i wanted it to be a little bit more binary
my words my what i'm going to say is it's a lot of conditions it's a it's really wishy
washy in a way that i just i'm i'm i'm i'm uncomfortable um so it's uh for listeners who don't know
what this is it is a big um delay network thing that cubit has done and it's all nautical themed
um and it has this um he sort of sewn our controls that have manipulation over this eight
eight delay line um network that inter operates with itself and it's got a lot of what you would
expect out of play circuit you know um it does the simple things simple but it also has this
complication it's cubit they they over you know they're gonna add stuff to it yeah it's always
gonna be a shift button yeah well it's funny because they even have a little thing it's like
no shift buttons this time oh which is a lie there's shifts like a how you see it yeah like how you
set the input control and uh the reset is by with a shift button i was like how do you how did you
not notice how did the editors for this document not notice there's no you'll notice there's no shift
two pages later there's a shift function um which is whatever my complaints are going to be
far deeper than poor documentation um a lot of a lot of the um modulation is surfaced you can
you can see me a lot of it um and it has a unique somewhat unique um output um which i believe
is called seonar is the output um and it's a stepped gate representation of what's going on
inside the network um which was honestly probably the most appealing thing to me like yeah i don't
go to relay lines that often in what i'm working on things it's something i go to if i or if i
use it i use it very sparingly very sort of like tight tight delays um so that's what i was like
oh maybe this is something that'll maybe open this up to me using these sort of more i watch a bunch
of demos on youtube and definitely got a little bit of that like oh these all sound the same i hope
this doesn't just sound like the one thing um i'm gonna say that it it sounds that you can get more
out of it than what's on the the demos and that what the sound is and i guess this is on brand or
on theme um it's very aquatic sound it sounds like it's underwater it sounds like it's sort of
whale song yeah it's sort of like the the the the dolphins mating in the spring exactly like the
delay sounds like it's traversing through water and it has this sort of like i mean i don't think they
want people use the word muddy i think it sounds it comes across a little muddy a little subdued
just so much of the high end is just gone huh plasticy maybe that's the plasticy that you were
talking about i'm telling you man all cute bit modules sound like plastic to me i can't describe
it but it all has this plastic bucket characteristic that i can never ignore the aurorops like that
you know yes yeah i think it was probably the least right of cubit modules that i heard that had but
it still had that plasticy tone to it yeah i mean and honestly this is the first cubit module that i
that i bought and have like dove into so um and there was a weird thing to where they um there's a
feedback knob and it goes to infinity but and beyond but even have a little note in the
documentation that's like don't worry we've made it so that it doesn't get out of control if you
hit it to infinity yeah like some sort of built-in limiter or whatever yeah it actually kind of just
makes it useless honestly it doesn't it doesn't go to infinity it doesn't go near it just it it
one of the analogies i kept coming back to when i was using this was
did you ever see something like kids uh learning how to bowl and they fill the lanes with like
the bumpers a bumpers bumper bowl so that you can't that's the whole time i'm using it i'm like
i feel like they just put these little bumpers around here and everything's like like that's not
gonna sound good so we've cut that off that's not gonna sound good so you can't do that there's a
lot of controls and there's a lot of different modes for both um there's a freeze button with
input on gate and high there's different modes for the different network configuration and there's
even like different feedback modes but all of them feel like i'm playing bumper bowl like i'm
bumper bowl and i'm like okay let's let's step out let's step a little outside of this and it's
like no this is that's as far as you're gonna go it's very like that sound you're getting and you hear
basically when you start it up you're gonna get very there's variations and the different um
aquatic theme sort of controls outside of just um resolution and reverse have this effect on
this network and there they're so subtle as to be pointless like maybe if i was a very very
like in tuned ambient fanatic who heard those sort of slight differences and i really relish
them this would be very exciting but it was actually i have jammed on these knobs and i've
sent a bunch of cv in a moduli of the shot of them and it just sounds like too preset and too
digitally perfect yeah it and it's it's very nice i will everything i've sent through it sounds
nice even just garbled nonsense or a sine wave or everything and it's the basically once it hits
past that first tap it immediately just becomes like oh it's here you go you're soothing except
this is a big accept there's a chroma knob and it has the chroma is basically these different effects
or i don't think they use the word effects it's basically different sort of operations on the network
hmm they're all nautical named and shit um but like basically there's like a crush there's a
it's sort of like different and there's a depth of mountains wine barnacle
so when you get to titans wank which is around tova um and there's a depth knob on it all of them
just like all of that low end that had been i mean i'm sorry all of the high end that had
has been buried under the sea all comes to the surface and just is this icy crunchy no matter
what the fuck you're sending it no matter what you're doing you turn that chroma knob and any of
that depth all it is and that's it those are your two modes of operations with the same i had it for
probably a couple of weeks now and i've given it a lot of chances i really do want to like this
um those are the two modes and the sonar is so obtuse there's it's this idea that you have this
like um exposure to this complicated network it's basically just a random step function there's no
it's not like you can use it and go okay cool the network's doing this and now i'm going to take that
modulation and do something else with it which is really what i wanted to do i'm looking at an
escape going yeah this is just fucking random as shit it's random gates it's just random
step random step okay it's it's uh fucking use it i didn't realize it was step i thought it was just
gates there's there's a different mode you can see in the um the online uh the web-based settings
page which actually wasn't that bad i was a little worried i may mention this in the last
episode i was really worried about the settings page being this web page thing that was actually
i was you're okay with it it's there's like 12 options they're all super straightforward you put
them in put them on a little usb thing you stick it in that was actually actually that's one of the
things i'm most positive about with this one of them is you then change it to pings you have these
gates you know it's okay these different gates but the one that i was like oh i want to step out but
i want the what the secret song with the guts i want them spilling out these guts
fucking useless fucking useless the only thing i mean it's tempo synced i'll give it that um but yeah
it's it's and massively disappointed the other thing is at the same time like a day later i got
the sound of shadows from you Nick this is v3 um from flight of harmony it's everything i fucking
want in a delay it's fucking perfect like if you did you take to it absolutely love it so
not all this is probably gone and i'm probably gonna keep that it's feedbacks like it's fucking
gnarly sound of shadows is like an unfuck with a ball classic on my list of delays i feel like
pt delay from bug brand and sound of shadows are both like can't fuck with them it was a little
word this is the v3 and yeah and but it's because the v2 is the bigger one and it's because the
vca yeah after vca which kind of it doesn't matter this still sounds fucking amazing and i
huge thumbs up for like a ten year old uh flight of harmony module um if you were
and that's why i guess sort of circling back around to my like review of this is
there's probably people out there that are seeing these demos of
novelism going that's what i want if that is exactly what you want and you
don't want too much variety from that Cyrus loves his fucking go for it you're gonna you're
you'll have it for days i'm sure they're gonna keep working on it um i like how i keep finding
ways to work syrus in as a reoccurring character we should have him on some time we should i mean
that we would have to believe out his perspective on modular is unlike any of us three i'm sure
sure like and i'm not surprised to hear that he liked this and that's not a dig at him at all
it really is just a different way of approaching it and it's exactly what he wanted yeah it's very
hard to get into a bad sound everything just sounds like oh that's nice that's nice i wonder if
someone could make a alt firmware where they take the bumpers off hmm i think that would be a
astounding it or even if they made something even if they made a version of that was like hey listen
we've i wouldn't be surprised i mean the aurora already has at least one other firmware now from
them and that's why i'm keeping it honestly yeah like i'm i'm gonna give this a shot to see
if they open it up a little if it if it expands beyond the sort of very limited and again it's
nice like i'm not that much of a third dog that i can't recognize that this is a nice sound it's just
fucking useless for me take the bumpers off and create some sort of like bbd emulation
to give it a little bit more character if that happens yeah i will have a completely different
review of that and i will come back and i will be fucking excited for it but until then it's
probably just gonna sit in a box you know i cubit we're just giving them away for free here
yeah so i i don't know i i i wish i'd something more concrete or definitive it's a pretty good
review thank you and that was it though that's all i that's really the alpha and a mega of my list i
have another bullet point on my list that encompasses a couple different modules actually oh um distortion
it's kind of circles back to use office speak oh so you're using distortion that's cool i mean
it's about time you started exploring it as dorche an options i've never looked into it before
i was like you know it's time to try it out always so safe with the levels great always like maybe a
little lower so my my complete disappointment of ghosts as you know a saturation module led me on a
hunt for something new i i mean i definitely have enough distortion module but i wanted more
wanted to try something fresh something good um so i dipped into a couple different things
first thing i dipped into was schlappy engineering um i'm sure that's not how you pronounce that schlappy
nigget i don't know schlappy i think your maybe your ex schlappy the way you're saying it is probably
actually what's offensive yeah it's just how i read it every time i look at it and it makes me laugh
um schlappy engineering um i know everyone has the hundred grit yeah and so i was like you know what
that one gets a lot of attention there's been plenty of reviews you know youtube videos of it
it was like kind of kind of wanted to dig into the lesser known stuff um the angle grinder and the
interstellar radio so i grabbed both of those um angle grinder was interesting so wait for our
listeners who probably don't know it i mean like i think shawn holds the only person i can think of
it had an angle grinder i think um dave does yeah oh really yeah okay so this maybe this probably
requires a little bit of an explanation angle grinder i don't really know how to describe it it's
like a quadr quadrature oscillator that you can also route audio through and it will function as a
like strange wave shaper slash distortion slash filter depending on what mode you put it into
but not like frequency not like fm sort of yes okay it's all based on like the frequency knob and
the difference like the four points where you have them you know i mean it's it's strange
and i liked it it was an interesting approach you know i mean and like at the end of the day if
you don't want to use it as like a distortion you can still use it as like pretty interesting
filter or an oscillator or even lfo it has a mode that drop it into lfo mode um i haven't had
like a quadrature lfo since intelligels um doctor doctor octa yeah doctor doc ock yeah um so it's
been a minute and so i was having some fun with that but ultimately um after doing some recording
with it i i kind of moved on from it quickly i i told it was what was missing about it like is
nothing it was kind of great but it was big it took up a lot of space um and it seemed like
for processing which was my primary reason of getting it was you know distortion processing
it was like a lot of finangling just to get to the same point every time it was like there was
always like one spot where i'm like okay this sounds gnarly and good it's not too much not too
less you know i mean it was like it that's a lot of module to kind of be like a one trick yes you
were saying you know what i mean like just kind of like i was always kind of happy with like the
one spot where i would get the wave shaping and then filtered you know and i'm like this is too
much space just for that in my opinion uh so i moved on from it but if i had more rack space
right now which is it's adult it's very tight right now um i would get one again for sure yeah yeah
hundred percent um it makes me even more curious for the hundred grid now and i think i'm gonna
have to try one out yeah because from the demos that i've heard it is slightly similar the hundred
grid seems like it can be a bit more like off the rails squelching and resonance and feedback um
which i forgot to mention like the the wave shaping if i recall correctly in the angle grinder is
you know feedback based oh in some way yeah it's it's a strange beast that i didn't fully wrap my
head around um i just had fun tweaking sliders and knobs and yeah getting nasty results out of it
and having fun you know that that's his own reward yeah uh the inner seller would agree with me at all
well no i was very like more uh whatever it is important like i don't like modules that aren't
fun to use you know and it was for you know it felt like you're exploring new territory with angle
grinder you know i couldn't really think of anything else comparative to compare it to except
maybe when you run audio through like a piston Honda and you're trying all the different waves
and things like that um kind of remind me that but with less variety unfortunately um
and the interstellar radio was cool what is that i've seen people using it and i've always been like
i should look up what that is i can't ever bother i can't explain what the hell it is i can just
explain like the type of sounds that's getting out of it um it basically sounds like you're
screwing around with the like fm radio you know i mean it's not an actual radio which is why i
didn't pay attention to it for a while i thought the module was actual like a radio receiver
it's not it just like emulates those sounds as you're you know combing through the frequency bands
and things like that um has like a carrier and a modulator and all that stuff um so i guess some
sort of like mutant ring mod i guess aa slash like noise generator um it was pretty cool
uh again uh i kept getting to like one point with it and being like yeah like how this sounds
and everything else would just kind of like be too much could you send like like a like a um
note sequence to could you basically play it like an oscillator could you sort of
i didn't use it as an oscillator much i sure as hell never tried tracking with it like i just
did it have that on it did it have like a one volt proactive tracking i mean it definitely has
CV i don't remember if it was one volt proactive okay um i was like kind of moving quickly like i
had a bunch of different distortions that i wanted to try these two were first on my list
fair enough i felt like i put them through their paces gave them a shot uh i was liking
intercellar radio more as like a noise source and to use not only with percussion but like as
percussion yeah i was running it through low low pass gate things like that making little
percussive hits with it metallic noise it was cool um but again not exactly what i was looking for
or needed at that moment yeah so i progressed from there to british noise electronics grit filter
it's good progression i've yeah it was okay so real quick big leap are all roads leading to british
electronics i feel like you like like that's where you end up it is you take these paths you go you
and then it's always it's like the um like the the television show where like there's like is an
on and on again off again will they will they get together but like by the end of the season
it's great in british electronics they fucking nail it for me yeah yeah it's every time i go back
to it like i had the cast feta you know the cascading fat amplifier oh yeah yeah i had that twice
you know like first i'ma had i was like this is great but it's you know it's just like you know
an amplifier whatever i already got amplifiers i don't need this then i moved on other modules
and then i was like no well i kind of did exactly what i wanted and it did it quickly so i got it back
and i still have it now and now i have a grit filter to pair with it um and grit is yeah 100%
what i was looking for yeah um it's not stereo not so you just said a hundred percent and then you
immediately found a flaw always a flaw i wouldn't say it's a 99.5 oh it's on a flaw because i know
you're really fired up for you yeah it's a feature because i know you're fired up for stereo like
that's been like your thing for a long time yeah and i've just kind of given up on being able to
do anything that i really love that is like distorted stereo field shit that isn't an oversteer
modulate you know what i am not sure i've learned to compromise i say so it's 100% within
this sort of compromised view yeah okay yeah and i overlooked the grit for a while because i was
like i don't need another filter you know i mean like i have tons of filters tons of dirty filters
yeah um simple it's super simple which is another reason why i kind of overlooked it i was like
yeah i was too so i almost got it too and i'm like i got filters i would say get one yeah yeah like
yeah i've always i think their stuff is beautiful too and uh i love the gun model panels it looks so
good yeah the um the sound of it the distortion that you can achieve was it exactly what i was
looking for it it goes to 11 so for for listeners and you give us an overview the filter but what
other options is in it not much dude you have a toggle switch to switch between low pass high
pass mode you have a limiter at the input uh which i am loving um oh cool i it doesn't give a whole
lot of gain i think it's only like a plus 2.5 gain or something like that oh yeah but it's enough to
make that limiter just give a little extra character you know what i mean yeah and it interacts with
the the resonance just by pushing it that much further so you can get some really interesting
you know harmonics out of the filter by just smashing that limiter a little bit
um like that and then it has a grit button which has two different functions i think i can't
remember exactly which i think one is like pre or post filter grit yeah i think so um and it's
great but honestly like i can achieve distortion that i really like even without it like it's a nice
extra oomph sometimes um is it like just in the high end where like what is the grit there it's
definitely uh adding some sizzle to the top gosh i gotcha um and then it has a knob that is parallel
i'm sorry it's parallel saturation or serial saturation yeah having a brainful yes yeah i don't
know either way it's like a nice saturation knob um and it's just strange like it's hard to describe
the characteristic of it it's almost like there's to the best of my knowledge there's no like
delay circuit in there but at times it kind of feels like there is one like it's kind of like
feeding back on itself and so starving almost not starving but just kind of like going into
itself in some way like a high settings it's adding like some interesting character maybe that's just
the the resonance at the proper spots self-oscillating but yeah it's it's brutal it's unforgiving it's
just three knobs into toggles basically yeah it exactly served the purpose that
was looking and you posted a video on your instagram recently yes i did yeah sounded
i i don't use this word lightly uh that's not a brutal thank you that was absolutely astounding
yeah it's it's it's clicking with me like a lot of times with distortions i have a sound in my head
and then i tried to replicate it and i struggled to do it because i can't find the right distortions
you know yeah moment i install grit i was like that's that's it like that's what the fuck i was
going for so you're so you're only going to sell it and rebuy it two more times i don't even think
that would be possible really yeah it might be hard to get it that's yeah i was gonna say like if
you want a grit filter grab it now there's only two in existence right now that are for sale at a
non insane price well signal sounds at the time this recording has two left okay um for 350 new price
um on reverb you can get them for around 800 even though they're still available new yeah
they're around 800 dollars on reverb i had some speculative pricing there yeah cascading fed up
i thought yeah fed up cascading you said fed amplifier um i just love saying cast fed up it sounds
like a delicious tune i would i would absolutely fuck that up yeah um cast fed up is going for the
one of them was for 1900 oh oh my god but they dropped the price to 1600 so if you want to get it
on sale now's the chance it's a bargain yeah no i think that costs 300 new 400 acts somewhere
between three to four yeah and people are trying to flip them now for like four times five times
the price cool the um i don't remember the name of the other module it's the only one that i don't
have that i really wish i did but the first one yeah the first release gain stage ampel gain stage
amplifier yes thank you those are going for like two grand as well yeah if they even pop up they
i don't see any last i look i i don't know if they're done do yeah like so the website's been dead for
about three months now oh um yeah and it's starting that's why the prices have been creeping out
starting to become apparent that like maybe he's done yeah uh ansem hasn't made any official
announcement um but yeah website's been dead there's been nothing new on instagram since the release
of the cast fed up and so i think a lot of people are speculating that like the ones that are out
there are all that's going to exist i hope that's not the case i hope i mean when i spoke to him
very briefly before the release of the cast fed up he said that like the cast fed up might not come
out until 2023 yeah remember that yeah thankfully that didn't happen he managed to get some parts and
made a few um but i don't know what the situation is now with the other modules like they might that
might be it so that sucks because i knew he like basically quit music to like work on electronic
stuff i'm like i hope he continues on i hope so too shit is killer yeah yeah i don't think there's a
lot of people out there that need the filter to go to 11 but those that do need it you know like
yeah it nails it so it's like yeah uh and he hits like right for uh new builder right out of the gate
like pretty fucking strong showing yeah yeah absolutely kind of killer modules i mean just kind of
spill over across all three you know what i mean but they all have enough differences that i would
gladly have all three in my rig yeah is it just him doing it as far as i know so that's so that's
pretty impressive yeah i think he even hand builds them i could be wrong though yeah i think so because
that one really interesting interview that he did when he talked about like switching to more
electronic stuff less touring um and also was saying like he stopped using the a kind of force and
was like switching over to the bit boxes for like live stuff and he was gonna work on a new live set
that's the last thing i saw from him not that i've like exhaustively searched but i mean but
everyone's everyone's suffering trying to make money touring it's yeah oh it's impossible so yeah
my quest for a new distortion went full circle back to british noise engineering all pastly there
or british noise electronics rather yeah i keep screwing up the name sorry sorry everyone and i did
uh have a rediscovery of how much i love trash master hmm that black panel does look sweet it
looks great i had two before that i upgraded the panels for um oh yeah oh my oh yeah but then i was
like you know what i i've been you know just kind of like i got sick of it like i was using the trash
master to death i had two of them i was like um you know this thing's great but i've recorded a lot
of shit with it i don't need these anymore taking up space and i sold them now i have two in my rig
again and now the wmd is you know yeah closing up shop i don't think i'll be getting rid of these
ones again yeah i think i got two of them sitting right next to two muscle compressors oh nice yeah
very nicely together very nicely so do you need us to like intervene if you ever think about
selling one of these how do we stop this endless cycle uh the only way to stop it is to make the
company go out of business because then i don't have the option to get them back later like yeah
there's too many times where i've been comfortable selling stuff because i'm like well if i need it
again i'll just get it again later yeah and like thanks to you know 2022 being 2022 that's not like
an option anymore yeah i'm just learning to be like okay i'm i'm putting more thought into my purchases
and i'm trying to keep what i have and make sure that what i'm buying is something that i really
need and want but you know that's why i won't sell my effects aid excel even though i have the
4 hp and then the pro and i just use those two because i'm just worried like oh one of this is
gonna break and like yeah you know it's based out of the ukraine too like because talk about uncertainty
right right i mean i hope they keep cranking stuff out but obviously
are you ready to talk about the trinity i am because it's sitting here it's it's it's in a um
for a list i actually wanted to talk about that first and i got sidetracked by all the other stuff
mmm that was been an exciting action-packed um episode so i'm looking at this in the way you've
presented it i don't know if it was by accident or not it looks like a glamour shot like an unveiling
kind of is dude i mean this this is the mod-bap trinity um i've had it since this afternoon
and i spent my entire lunch break playing with it so there are for listeners there are
somewhere around five thousand jacks yeah that is a good array of them there yeah and some uh
toggles uh and uh very nice printing i really like the way the panel looks i know nothing else
about this module this is a drum module three drum modules in fact all pressed into one
oh wait is this the one you were talking about last episode yes sir and i said hopefully i'll
have it by next episode and it arrived in the nick of time this afternoon so that worked out well but
yeah this was the one i was hyped for it's i mean i haven't spent a whole lot of time with it obviously
but the time that i did spend with it uh i was like immediately in love with it like this is is that
a teensy on the back like it is okay yeah just so it's uh it's a pretty big module but on the back
there's a daughter board looks like a teensy and a lot of uh a lot of SMD parts on the back yeah
yeah it's only got what that's six ten eleven knobs but tons of buttons and a hell of a
lot of jacks three dip switches um it's it's basically the drum module i've always
hoped would exist someday you know i mean like it's it's not samples it's drum synthesis um
you can have each drum be whatever the hell you want that's nice it's not forcing you to do
this is a bd this is snares hat yeah no it's if you want three kicks you got three kicks you want
three different hats you got three different hats which is exciting because i know in the past
we've talked about the fact that the three of us are not single bass drum music yeah all of us have
a variety of them in the same song even in fact the sole purpose that i got this module for was
pretty much to be a triple bass kick module yeah like i have other you know modules to handle
percussive sounds and snares i could do them on here if i wanted but that wasn't the main appeal to me
uh this was mainly going to be like handling kick and bass duties which sound amazing
like it has some serious pitch range i was very impressed by it it can pound it has on board
and this is all per drum mind you you hold shift and then you hit one two or three and that's the
drum you're not editing oh that's really clever yeah so and you can stack them by the way what do
you mean by stack so i don't play with that but yeah you can layer all three so you got some
magic the gathering cards there yeah give us some magic gathering cards it's pretty cool
Trinity stack has three modes off where only one drum will be selected and play out on channel one
other drums will play on their defined channels two and three two stack drums one and two will be
selected to stack and play out together on channel one drum three will be on its own channel and
then there's three stack one two and three will be selected to stack and play out together on channel
one and by stack is that just mixed or how's it like what is stacking it's sort of the whole
trigger and turn shape to spread the stack of voices oh that's so this is like you can make a
triple layered kick yeah that you only need to you know manipulate once and gate once yeah um
when the voices are stacked a single trigger receiving channel one will activate okay and all
the stack voices that's fucking awesome yeah that's really cool now that stack mode that also has
cycle mode here which has two different modes oh well three modes off on which is the blue mode
which is random every time that drum receives a trigger it'll go through the four different
drum modes at random so if you wanted like the analog simulation the FM the arcade noise you know
that you're bouncing between them so you essentially do like a full drum set on a single channel and
then the third mode is round robin same thing you know I mean so like per trigger it's going to
select the next mode over and over oh gosh i see what you're saying so it's not random it's
cycling yes i was playing with that mode because that was the mode that i was least interested in
and then on my lunch break i was getting some really cool rhythmic noise out of it so and the
drum sounds themselves i i assume they've they've got beef they got beef you can add beef to it there's
a clipper knob over here if you want to push things into like clipping distortion territory there's
also a grit knob over here which is some sort of saturation i didn't read the manual see what
it's emulating but it was it was nice it was beef and some stuff up that's for sure so you got these
knobs and you say you select the different modes but are the jacks dedicated to each of the different
drums they are okay you got your three different lanes here so even though like you can only tweak
a knob one at a time depending on the mode but you can see v all of it and it's going to do it in
the background for that voice um which is awesome in my opinion love the design the design is solid
yeah originally i wanted two of these um i i don't even know if i would need to honestly it doesn't
like i can see getting a lot of mileage out of one right you know maybe down the road i can get a
second one when i have more funds at my disposal but right now yeah i i i see myself doing a lot of
recording with this yeah that's awesome um each drum also has like its own filter basically like
it's the cue knob i i noticed to the right it's more of a high pass left more of a low pass center
you're kind of like neutral um which is pretty cool too uh you have your sweep and time knobs
that's for pitch modulation you have your hold and decay knob over here oh so it has its own envelope
yeah i love that kind of mixing options on the output where you can do it like individual or
send it to the mix or like that was super appealing to me as well because i love doing like different
layered sub mixes yeah you can have each thing going out of its individual channel flip the switch
to have a go to the sub out or both so you can have like each drum voice processed individually on its
own and also a sub mix coming out of the mix knob to some other processing you know right which is
pretty nice that is uh that's awesome i didn't know until a couple weeks ago that mod bap stands for
like modules that are good for boom bap and other like dance performance oriented stuff and that's
kory banks focus with it and they're a black owned modular synthesis company yeah um that's
not too common yeah pretty rad yeah it's awesome and the killing it on the design like i
am way more interested now after hearing your explanation of this stuff it can do that's a
powerhouse right there
[Music]